CSE 111 Proposal for a Student Chosen Program

    (This is a proposal. All proposals are written with our best
    knowledge at the beginning of a project. As we progress from the
    beginning to the end of a project, we gain more knowledge, and we
    change some of our proposed ideas. This is part of completing any
    project and is fine.  However, we still must write a proposal so
    that our teachers or supervisors know what we intend to do. Please
    answer each of the following questions to the best of your
    knowledge.)

1. What is the title of your program?
    Climbing Route Consensus Averaging. I'll name the Python file grading.py

2. What real-world problem will your program address or help to solve?
    At work, I'm a routesetter who creates climbing routes in a rock climbing gym. Because the grading of these routes is subjective universally in the sport,
    we use a consensus card for the climbers to put down what they think the route is graded, if it's hard or easy. For a quick explanation, 
    the lower the grade, the easier it is. For example, 5.9 is easier than a 5.11. There are also + and - on a grade (5.10-) meaning it's a softer
    5.10. These are how climbers determine if it's a climb in their difficulty level. Then, after there are about 10 or more marks
    on the consensus card, as a setter I take a rough average of the marks and then grade it based on the consensus. The problem is that it's not 100% accurate. 
    With this program, I want to create a very exact average for all the consensus marks. Average the general grade, and then average the + and - on the consensus. 

3. What will you learn from developing this program?
    In this program, I hope to learn how to organize all my functions, create a test for the functions, and also create a more accurate grading system for the 
    gym where I work. 

4. What Python modules will your program use?

    (Some examples are: csv, datetime, functools, matplotlib, math,
    pandas, pytest, random, requests, and tkinter.)
    
    For my program, I will use math so that I can calculate the averate of the tick marks, datetime so that I can know which route was graded when,
    I will also use pytest so that I can write test functions to test my program. 

5. Will you separate your Python program into functions that each
perform a single task?

    (Remember that the most reusable functions don't get user input and
    don't print results but instead have parameters and return a result.
    Functions that get user input and print results are important and do
    useful work but are not easily reusable.)

    (Remember also that it's hard to test functions that get user input
    and print results. It's easy to test functions that don't get user
    input and don't print results but instead have parameters and return
    a result. Therefore, you should write most of your program functions
    to have parameters and return a result.)

    I probably will separate my functions so that I can first calculate the general grade of the consensus card, but then calculate the + and - on each route 
    giving me an accurate grading of the route based on customer's consensus. 

6. Will you write test functions to test at least two of your program
functions?
    Yes, I think that the two fucntions I have will be easy to write a test fucntion for since I'll be using the math function. Testing is a good skill
    to practice since I'll be using it in more programs in school and my career. 